Welcome back for the solution for design of experiments Question number four Remember this question
was asking.
What's the definition of power for a statistical test and what factors affect the power and how does
the power relate to the P-value.
So the power of any test of statistical significance is defined as the probability that it will reject
a false null hypothesis.
So statistical power is inversely related to beta or the probability of making a type 2 error.
So in short power is equal to 1 minus beta statistical power.
Again is the likelihood that a study will detect that effect when there is an effect there to be detected.
If statistical power is high the probability of making it type 2 error are concluding there is no effect.
When in fact there was one goes down.
So again it's the statistical power is high the probability of making a type 2 error goes down.
Statistical power is affected chiefly by the size of the effect and the size of the sample being used
to detect bigger effects are easier to the tech than smaller effects while large samples offer greater
test sensitivity than small samples.
So if you perform a test the P-value is the smallest Alpha for which the tests will reject the null
hypothesis.
It is of value the significance level for which the tests are autistic would have been on the boundary
of the rejection region then by comparing the value of the Type 1 error we can decide if we're going
to reject the null hypothesis if we see a larger Alpha we then in turn allow for larger p values to
be considered significant meaning we increase the power of the test.
And that's the basic idea behind how you calculate power how powers the fine number it's 1 minus beta
and also how power is related to p values.
In general this is definitely something that's kind of hard to comprehend the first especially I believe
in a video format.
It's a lot easier to just take the time sit down and read through the definition of statistical hypothesis
testing and how alpha beta power or type 1 error's type 2 hours and p values are all related to each
other.
Definitely take your time with this one.
It's going to be extremely important for certain job postings and a lot of times you're going to be
just grilled on your understanding of hypothesis testing.
OK.
Thanks everyone.
Hope that was helpful.
Definitely check out the resources in the guide book for this one.
I'll see it there.